Word Bricks
===========

This language independent learning tool will help teachers teach their pupils in
an interactive fun way. The aim of this web application is for both students and
teachers to log in to their own personal account. This application is aimed at
primary school children learning a new language.

Getting Started
---------------

After typing the URL ‘www.wordbricks.xyz’ into your chosen browsers search bar
you will be directed to the Word Bricks home page.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/homepage.PNG)

There are three options as seen above; Login (displayed as a lock and ‘Welcome
back’ written underneath), Student Registration (displayed as a student figure
with a book and ‘Student Sign Up’ written underneath) and Teacher Registration
(displayed as a teacher figure with a whiteboard and ‘Teacher Sign Up’ written
underneath).

These three options bring you to forms that allow you to login or join. To begin
using the web application you must become a registered user, either a student or
a teacher. These two accounts will give you different options throughout the
application.

Login:
------

After you have registered you will be able to come back to the web application
and log in. This way you will be able to continuously track your class (Teacher)
or personal progress (Student). On the Word Bricks home page there is a lock
icon, with ‘Welcome Back’ written below. You must click on this icon and will be
directed to a login page.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/login.PNG)


You must enter a valid username and password. Once these fields are completed
you can then click on the orange ‘LOGIN’ button below the form. If you have
accidently clicked into this page and are a new user, you can click the blue
‘REGISTER’ button or the orange back button with an arrow in the top right
corner which will bring you back to the Word Bricks homepage.

New teacher user: Creating a teacher account
--------------------------------------------

By clicking on the ‘Teacher Registration’ icon, you will be directed to a
registration page as seen below.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/teacherReg.PNG)

Here you must fill out your details. Username, e-mail, password and class name
are required to create a teacher account. After creating a class, take note of
this class name as you will need to give it to your student so they can join
your class when registering.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/goBack.PNG)

If you have clicked on the wrong option or wish to go back to the Word Bricks
homepage, simply click on the orange button with an arrow. It is located in the
top right hand side corner.

Teacher homepage
----------------

Your username is displayed in the top left hand side corner of the page.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/teacherHomeNoPupils.PNG)

If you are a new user to the Word Bricks web application your teacher account
will look like the above example ‘MuinteoirUna’ homepage. This homepage is empty
as the teacher has no pupils added to her class yet. On the left the graph which
will show the average class is empty and the class list on the right is empty
also.
![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/logout.PNG)


You can simply log out by clicking the ‘logout’ button displayed in the top
right hand side corner. This will bring you to the Word Bricks homepage.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/teacherHome.PNG)

You can see here ‘MuinteoirMaire’ has given her class name to her pupils and
they have joined up. On the left hand side the pupil’s average grade is
displayed using a bar chart. On the right hand side all the pupils in
‘MuinteoirMaire’ class are listed.

New student user: Creating a student account
--------------------------------------------

When you are on the Word Brick homepage, click on the middle icon of the student
reading with ‘Student Sign Up’ written underneath. This will direct you to a
student registration page.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/studentReg.PNG)

Here you can select which language you want to learn, you can only choose one
per account. Whether you choose one or the other you should still follow the
following steps.

You must enter a username, password and confirm your password. If you are using
this application through school you can sign up as part of your class by ticking
the ‘YES’ or ‘No’ box. When the box is ticked ‘YES’ you will then be asked to
enter your teacher’s class name. Your teacher should provide you with the class
name.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/studentRegClass.PNG)

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/joinClass.PNG)

Above you can see the student is joining the class ‘RangMaire’

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/goBack.PNG)

If you have clicked on the wrong icon or wish to go back to the Word Bricks
homepage, simply click on the orange button with an arrow. It is located in the
top right hand side corner.

Student Homepage
----------------

Once you have registered as a student you will be brought to your personal
homepage where you can watch your progress and go to the exercise page. Your
username is displayed in the top left hand side corner of the page.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/studentHomepage.PNG)

As you progress through the exercises your homepage will change depending on
your level of progress. If you are a new student user your homepage will be
similar to the above image and it shows you have not completed any exercises yet
as the dial is still at zero.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/studentHomepageEasy.PNG)

Above the user ‘student’ is half way through the medium exercises and has been
awarded the easy medal. You will get awarded medals on your progress through the
levels of exercises.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/studentHomepageMed.PNG)

The user ‘paiste1’ has completed all of the easy exercises, medium exercises and
is half way through the hard exercises. This user has been award two medals for
their progress.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/studentHomepageHard.PNG)

Above the user ‘Gwen’ has completed all the exercises and has been awarded three
medals.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/logout.PNG)

You can simply log out by clicking the ‘logout’ button displayed in the top
right hand side corner. This will bring you to the Word Bricks homepage.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/exerciseButton.PNG)

The exercise page button directs you to the exercise page where you can answer
questions.

Exercise Page for any language:
-------------------------------

*(sample below: Irish)*

If you want to complete exercises you can click on the ‘Exercise Page’ button
displayed on the right hand side of the page underneath your medals when you .
After you click on the exercise button you will be brought to the exercise page
depending on your level of progress. Below is an exercise page for the level
easy.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/exercisePage.PNG)

You will be given random blocks to form a sentence. Below you can see the three
blocks ‘Bhí’, ‘Niamh’ and ‘brónach. These blocks have different colours and have
different jigsaw shapes for you to connect together to form a sentence. A
sentence is formed by simply dragging the block from the left hand side of the
page to the open white space.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/exercisePageDrag.PNG)

You must click on the block you want to use and drag it to the white space. You
should be able to gradually form a sentence.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/exercisePageSentence.PNG)

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/exercisePageButton.PNG)

Once you have formed the sentence you can then click the ‘Check your answer’
button displayed in the bottom right hand side corner of the page.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/exerciseWellDone.PNG)

When you have checked your answer and if you get it correct you will see a
pop-up encouraging you to keep going. You can continue working on exercises by
clicking on the ‘Next Question’ button.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/exerciseTryAgain.PNG)

If you form an incorrect sentence, you will be notified but you are allowed try
the sentence again. You must simply click on the ‘Try again’ button to attempt
the exercise again.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/exercisePageBin.PNG)

If you want to delete a block you can drag the word from the workspace over to
the ‘bin’ icon located in the bottom right hand side corner of the workspace.
You must drag the block over the bin for the block to be deleted.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/exerciseProgress.PNG)

You can view your progress as you attempt the questions by looking at the
progress bar which is located below the workspace.

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/exerciseLevel.PNG)

If you working through the exercise and curious to see what level you are on

![](http://wordbricks.xyz/UserManual/Images/exerciseGoBacks.PNG)

You can exit the exercises at any stage during your lesson. Click on the ‘Home
Page’ button and you will be brought back to your home page. It is located in
the top right hand side corner of the page.

We hope you enjoy Word Bricks and continue to learn languages the fun way!
